Okay, so now we're going to be setting up Prometheus which is
a great monitoring solution because it includes
a lot of flexibility and it's pretty easy to configure and install.
So we're just going to go about and setting it up with Ansible
which makes our job easier as a DevOps engineer.
So let's go ahead and do that.
We're going to start by installing
Ansible and so let's go ahead and do that on the command line.
We're also throwing in Python pip as well into this process.
We're going to need that, because that's going to be a dependency in order to get
another tool that we're going to use with
Ansible as part of the installation process for Prometheus.
So we're installing pip install talks,
talks is used for Version Management,
and now we're doing a git clone of the cloud alchemy and school Prometheus.
Now, we have to go ahead and set up our directory structure in an Ansible like fashion.
So we're do a make directory_ p for include the parents, roles cloud alchemy.
The rationale is that we're setting this up so that we can place all of
our component parts of this Ansible job and then be able to kick it off.
So now we're going to place all of these sub-directories.
Just doing the tab complete makes it really easy to type these,
defaults /handlers/ meta/ molecule/
tasks/ templates/ vars/ and we're just going to throw that inside of that directory.
We just created.
So now we're just going to quickly look at
that directory and we're just going to verify those component parts.
Now, we're just going to review the [inaudible] quick
because we're going to grab the root level playbook,
and we're just going to make a very small change
to this but we're going to include most of this.
So I'm going to exit out of there and we're going to edit main.YAML.
We're going to paste that contents and then we're getting rid of
one of those targets which is not inside of our name space.
You can see here in the roles cloud alchemy Prometheus.
So that needs to match very closely at the directory that we created
earlier rolls- without alchemy Prometheus if those don't match it won't work.
So we have a root level playbook and
now we're printing an inventory file and we're just doing this on local host.
So we'll type in local host and Ansible connection equals local.
I'm going to save and exit the file.
So now we can go ahead and just launch that playbook with Ansible playbook.
We do -I for the inventory file and
now the playbook name and we'll hit "Enter" and watch it do its thing.
So now it's gathering facts, Installing Prometheus,
configuring for Prometheus and
just verify that we're seeing all okay's for the most part.
So now we have completed our running of the playbook.
We've created our main YAML, our inventory file,
our role and we're ready to do note exporter and configure that to talk to Prometheus.
Great. So now we've successfully installed
Prometheus and we're going to go in our next lesson.
We're going to configure note exporter to actually send some data into it.